ARC-0004: Change how contract creation and OnCompletion actions work (#57)
algorandfoundation/ARCs: ARCs/arc-0004.md

    /** Optional, user-friendly description for the argument */
    desc?: string
  }>,
  /** A list of allowed OnCompletion values for the method. Must not be empty */
  allowedActions: OnCompletionAction[],
  /** Information about the method's return value */
  returns: { type: string, desc?: string }
}
```

Where `OnCompletionAction` is defined as:

```typescript
type OnCompletionAction = "noop" | "optin" | "closeout" | "clearstate" | "update" | "delete";
```

Each string value represents an application call transaction OnCompletion
(`apan`) value. The mapping from these string values to the numeric values

> for transaction encoding is:

Reviewer: Should we link directly to the go source file that defines these?

Reviewer 2: yes. I would

Author: Good suggestion, I'll add a link tomorrow

    /** Optional, user-friendly description for the argument */
    desc?: string
  }>,
  /** A list of allowed OnCompletion values for the method. Must not be empty */

>   allowedActions: OnCompletionAction[],

Reviewer 3: If these are specified in an interface, must a contract support all of them in order to be considered an implementation of the interface?  Can it support more?  I think perhaps this belongs only in Contract methods, not Interface methods.  I dislike that nearly so many methods will be annotated that they allow optin.  I prefer that the ABI says "all methods should support optin".  I prefer to make rules that try to regularize ABI contracts, rather than expand they ABI to support describing arbitrary complexity.

  /** Information about the method's return value */
  returns: { type: string, desc?: string }
}
```

Where `OnCompletionAction` is defined as:

```typescript

> type OnCompletionAction = "noop" | "optin" | "closeout" | "clearstate" | "update" | "delete";

Reviewer 4: Should we switch to the TEAL constants (https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/dapps/avm/teal/specification/#oncomplete):
`NoOp`, `OptIn`, `CloseOut`, `ClearState`, `UpdateApplication`, `DeleteApplication`
for consistency?

Reviewer 3: It seems weird to have clearstate here.  Contracts can't say no.  They could return 0, which I suppose would cause the effects not to occur, but the clearstate would still happen.

```

Each string value represents an application call transaction OnCompletion
(`apan`) value from https://github.com/algorand/go-algorand/blob/18cd6cda606c7d035bed4d2cfefaf4f25d009fa3/data/transactions/application.go#L51-L84.
The mapping from these string values to the numeric values for transaction
encoding is:
* `noop`: 0
* `optin`: 1
* `closeout`: 2
* `clearstate`: 3
* `update`: 4

> * `delete`: 5

Reviewer 3: I don't think this needs to be here.

    { "type": "uint64", "name": "a", "desc": "The first term to add" },
    { "type": "uint64", "name": "b", "desc": "The second term to add" }
  ],

>   "allowedActions": [ "noop" ],

Reviewer 3: I dislike that this will appear everywhere.

(specifically, they must have unique method selectors).

Methods in a Contract that originate from an implemented Interface **MUST**
contain every allowed OnCompletion action from the Interface's definition
of the method (though the Contract's program **MAY** reject some of these
OnCompletion actions at runtime if they do not apply to the Contract's
implementation). Additionally, the Contract's method definition **MAY**
include additional allowed OnCompletion actions if its implementation
supports them.

Method names in Contracts **MAY** begin with underscore, but these
names are reserved for use by this ARC and its future revisions.

A Contract **MAY** implement a special method with the name
`_create`. This method describes how a caller can instantiate a
specific contract. This method **MAY** have arguments and a
return value, and there **MAY** be multiple methods with this
name as long as each method produces a unique selector. The
`_create` method **MUST** only be invoked by an application
creation transaction (i.e. an application call transaction with
the special application ID 0). The Contract implementation
**MUST** reject the transaction if a non-creation application

> call invokes the `_create` method.

Author: We may also want to add the option to specify schema sizes and extra pages to a Contract's JSON to make the Contract easier to create.

Reviewer 4: Is the `_create` method like the old `_optIn` and `_closeOut`, that is you provide the empty string as first application argument.
Or do you use the normal selector as first application argument?
I think the latter, but just wanted to confirm.

Author: The `_create` method would behave like other methods, meaning the selector should always be the first arguments.

A Contract is the complete set of methods that an app implements. It
is similar to an interface, but may include further details about the
concrete implementation. All methods in a Contract must be unique
(specifically, they must have unique method selectors).

Methods in a Contract that originate from an implemented Interface **MUST**
contain every allowed OnCompletion action from the Interface's definition
of the method (though the Contract's program **MAY** reject some of these
OnCompletion actions at runtime if they do not apply to the Contract's

> implementation). Additionally, the Contract's method definition **MAY**

Reviewer 3: I don't understand what this means at all.  They must specify that they allow the operation, but they might not actually allow the operation?

include additional allowed OnCompletion actions if its implementation
supports them.

Method names in Contracts **MAY** begin with underscore, but these
names are reserved for use by this ARC and its future revisions.

A Contract **MAY** implement a special method with the name

> `_create`. This method describes how a caller can instantiate a

Reviewer 4: Is the `OnCompletion` restricted to `NoOp`?

Reviewer 3: How can a contract support creation?  You would have to supply the bytecode itself.  So the contract would have to specify the bytecode. How else could you call it?

Author: Not just noop. Any `OnCompletion` value except close out or clear state can be specified for this, as those are the only ones that the network will reject.

Otherwise it's perfectly valid to opt-in during creation, or even set `OnCompletion` to delete to immediately self destruct the app. It's also valid to set `OnCompletion` to update, though this is functionally the same as noop.

specific contract. This method **MAY** have arguments and a
return value, and there **MAY** be multiple methods with this
name as long as each method produces a unique selector. The
`_create` method **MUST** only be invoked by an application
creation transaction (i.e. an application call transaction with
the special application ID 0). The Contract implementation
**MUST** reject the transaction if a non-creation application
call invokes the `_create` method.

Additionally, a Contract **MAY** allow application calls with

> no arguments. The primary purpose of this is to allow the execution

Reviewer 4: Should this be specified explicitly in the description?
Like with an "emptyAllowedActions" field?

of an OnCompletion action which requires no input data and has no
return value. A Contract **MAY** allow this for all OnCompletion
values, or only for a subset of them. Of course, great care should
be taken when allowing these operations.

> 

Reviewer 4: As in the previous version, should we **RECOMMEND** to have an empty optin/closeout?

An ARC-4 app implementing a method:

1. **MAY** check if `txn NumAppArgs` is 0, if the Contract wishes to
support OnCompletion app calls which use no arguments and have no
return value. The Contract **MAY** allow this for all OnCompletion
values, or only for a subset of values. If the OnCompletion value is not
allowed by the Contract, the call **MUST** fail. Otherwise, if the
OnCompletion value is allowed by the Contract, the Contract's
implementation **MUST** handle the call appropriately and either
approve or reject the transaction, and the following steps **MUST** be
ignored.

2. **MUST** Examine `txna ApplicationArgs 0` and `txn OnCompletion` to
identify the selector of the method being invoked and the OnCompletion
value of the call. If the contract does not implement a method with
that selector, or the method with that selector does not supported
the OnCompletion value, the call **MUST** fail.

> 3. **SHOULD** branch to the body of the method indicated by the selector.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. **SHOULD** execute the actions that the method indicate by the selector prescribes. In general, this works by branching to the body of the method indicated by the selector.
```
